---
ID: 29370
post_title: 'What&#8217;s New — 03/01/2017'
author: Steve Penrod
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://mycroft.ai/blog/whats-new-02292017/
published: true
post_date: 2017-03-01 10:02:30
---
This week we give Mycroft Skill developers some new tools as we start a series of changes to make their lives easier, letting them focus on doing their magic and honing the Skills they want to build!
<h2>This week's changes</h2>
&nbsp;
<h4><span style="color: #4990e2;">mycroft.ai website</span></h4>
<ul>
 	<li>Changed the dedicated Mark 1 page to <a href="https://mycroft.ai/get-mycroft/">Get Mycroft</a>.  This single page contains info on all the ways you can start interacting with Mycroft — by ordering a Mark 1, downloading the Picroft image, installing the KDE desktop plasmoid, or pulling down code directly from Github and building it yourself.</li>
</ul>
<h4></h4>
<h4><span style="color: #4990e2;"><a href="https://github.com/MycroftAI/enclosure-picroft" target="_blank">Picroft 0.8c <i class="fa fa-external-link"></i></a> </span></h4>
<ul>
 	<li>A refreshed release of the Raspberry Pi image with mycroft-core 0.8.6 pre-installed.  This makes the initial interaction easier (especially registering).  There is no need to re-install if you already have Picroft working, the daily update mechanism will take care of you automatically.</li>
</ul>
<h4></h4>
<h4><span style="color: #4990e2;"><a href="https://github.com/MycroftAI/mycroft-core/releases/tag/release%2Fv0.8.6" target="_blank">mycroft-core 0.8.6 <i class="fa fa-external-link"></i></a></span></h4>
<ul>
 	<li>Reduced the longest listening time from 30 seconds to 10 seconds.  This helps in noisy situations where silence detection is not possible.  <a href="https://github.com/MycroftAI/mycroft-core/pull/529">PR #529</a></li>
 	<li>Skill auto-reload.  The Skill system now monitors the skill folders, reloading them automatically when files have changed.   <a href="https://github.com/MycroftAI/mycroft-core/pull/524">PR #524</a></li>
 	<li>Enhanced CLI.  The Command Line Interface (CLI) tool has been totally revamped.   <a href="https://github.com/MycroftAI/mycroft-core/pull/536">PR #536
</a>
<ul>
 	<li>It now operates as a full-screen app (using curses)</li>
 	<li>Utterances are typed in at the bottom.  A history of utterances and responses is displayed immediately above.</li>
 	<li>Filtered versions of the mycroft-voice.log and mycroft-skills.log files are shown in real-time at the top. By default, the viseme commands are filtered.  Ctrl+PgUp / PgDn scrolls through the logs.</li>
 	<li>Invoke using <strong><span style="color: #000080;">cli</span></strong> under Picroft or <strong><span style="color: #000080;">./start.sh cli --quiet</span></strong> for a Github checkout.</li>
 	<li>To get previous behavior (non-curses), invoke with the "--simple" parameter.
For example: <strong><span style="color: #000080;">./start.sh cli --quiet --simple</span></strong></li>
 	<li>More to come!</li>
</ul>
</li>
 	<li>As a one-step method for developers, running  <strong><span style="color: #000080;">./mycroft.sh start -d</span></strong> starts mycroft-core services and jumps directly into the cli for debugging/debugging.  Use <strong><span style="color: #000080;">./mycroft.sh stop</span></strong> after you exit the cli if you don't want Mycroft to continue running in the background. <a href="https://github.com/MycroftAI/mycroft-core/pull/522">PR #522</a></li>
</ul>
&nbsp;

I've been enjoying debugging in KDE with a Skill in a text editor, the CLI running in a window next to it.  I write a little code, hit Save, then can almost instantly see the Skill auto-reload in the logs.  If I have a typo, I notice and fix that immediately.  Then I use the CLI to test whatever I implemented.  Dropping logger.debug("") in my code is a fast way to figure out anything going wrong, and is now easy to see.  A much nicer and faster development experience!