---
post_title: 'Mycroft for Android'
layout: page
published: false
---

# Mycroft for Android

There are two components to Mycroft for Android:

1. The Android companion app. The app works by opening a websocket connection to the `mycroft-core` messagebus, and sending and receiving messages from there. It implements voice recognition and Text to Speech (TTS) via Google APIs at the moment,

Folks, I'm rewriting the Mycroft documentation, because docs.mycroft.ai is so out of date. I'm just getting up to the Android documentation. I don't know a lot about Android, or Android Studio, or even the structure of how Mycroft works with Android. In GitHub I can see that there are two different repos related to Android, being:
* https://github.com/MycroftAI/Mycroft-Android
* https://github.com/MycroftAI/MycroftCore-Android
Are they two components of the overall Android distribution, or are they independent - ie do you have to be running your own Mycroft Core to point your Android at, or can you point the compiled Android app at home.mycroft.ai?

Waiting on more information before documenting this.

@TODO need to get a better understanding how of Mycroft for Android works before moving forward here.

### Prerequisites

This section of documentation assumes the following:

* That you already have [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html) installed
* That you already have an Android device, and that you're comfortable loading Android applications on to the device from Android Studio.

### Getting Started

First, you will need to clone the `git` repo and import it into your IDE.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/MycroftAI/Mycroft-Android
Cloning into 'Mycroft-Android'...
remote: Counting objects: 1381, done.
remote: Total 1381 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 1381
Receiving objects: 100% (1381/1381), 538.46 KiB | 210.00 KiB/s, done.
Resolving deltas: 100% (648/648), done.
Checking connectivity... done.
```

To import into Android Studio, XXXXXXX


### Connecting to a `mycroft-core` instance

### Pairing Mycroft for Android

There is no need to pair Mycroft for Android, as the companion app connects to your `mycroft-core` instance, and uses the pairing from that.

#### Keeping Mycroft for Android updated

The easiest way to keep Mycroft for Android updated is to clone the `git` repo when you want to build a new image to deploy to your Android phone. 

### Common issues with Mycroft for Android

@TODO link to Troubleshooting
